1.Count total no. of employees.

select count(*) `Total no. of employees` from emp;

2. Determine the maximum and minimum salary.

select max(sal) `maximum  sal`, min(sal) `minimum  sal` from emp;

3. Display the count of employees having salary greater than 3000.

       select count(*) from emp where sal > 3000;

4. Print department wise count of employees.

select deptno, count(*) from emp group by deptno;

5. Display employee details who earn maximum and minimum salary.

select ename , sal from emp where sal=(select max(sal) from emp) or sal=(select min(sal) from emp);

6. Print jobwise total salary.

select job, sum(sal) from emp group by job;

7. Print department wise maximum salary.

select deptno, max(sal) from emp group by deptno;

8. Print jobwise average salary.

select job, avg(sal) from emp group by job;

9. Print count of employee working in department 20.

select deptno, count(*) from emp where deptno = 20;

10. Print count of employee working in department 10 having job as MANAGER.

select deptno, count(*) from emp where deptno = 10 and job='manager';

11. Print count of employee working in department 20 having comm as null.

select deptno, count(*) from emp where deptno = 20 and isnull(comm);

12.Print names of employees working in ACCOUNTS department having maximum salary.

select ename from emp where job='accounts' and sal=(select max(sal) from emp);

13. Print employee details having salary less than average salary of MANAGER.

select avg(sal) from emp where job='manager';

14.Give SQL statement to find the average annual salary per job in each detp.

select job, avg(sal*12) from emp group by job;

15.Count the number of people in the dept 30 who receive a salary and the no.of people who receive comm.

select count(case when sal is not null then 1 end) salary, count(case when comm is not null then 1 end) comm from emp where deptno=30;

16.Calculate the avg, min and max salary of those groups of employees having the job as CLERK or MANAGER.

select avg(sal), min(sal), max(sal) from emp where job='clerk' or job='manager';

17.Display the deptno of departments which have more than one CLERK.

select deptno from emp where job='clerk' group by deptno having count(*)>1;

18.List names and hiredates of employees who were hired in the month of December

select ename, hiredate from emp where month(hiredate)=12;

19.List names and hiredate of employees hired in the year 1980

select ename, hiredate from emp where year(hiredate)=1980;

20.Display names and jobs of the people separated by a hyphen. Capitalize the first character of name and job.

select concat(concat(upper(substr(ename, 1, 1)), lower(substr(ename, 2, length(ename)))), '-', job) r1 from emp;




21.List employee numbers, names and hiredates of the people working in the department number 20, display the hiredates in the dd/mm/yy format

select empno, ename, date_format(hiredate, "%d/%m/%y") hiredate from emp where deptno=20;

22.Find number of months the president has worked for the company. 

select empno, job, period_diff(extract(year_month from curdate()), extract(year_month from hiredate)) `Month worked` from emp where job='president';

23.Find the day of the week on which SMITH joined

select hiredate, dayofweek(hiredate) from emp where ename='smith';

24.Find the time of time of the day in which ADAMS joined


25.Find day of month on which KING joined

select hiredate, dayname(hiredate) from emp where ename='king';

26.Find out month on which MARTIN joined

select hiredate, monthname(hiredate) from emp where ename='martin';

27.Find out which quarter of the year the employees joined. Display their number and names as well
28.Retrieve ANALYST records with the hiredate formatted as – ‘The 3rd of December 1984’

select ename, job, concat("The ", date_format(hiredate, "%D"), " of ", monthname(hiredate), ' ', year(hiredate)) hiredate from emp where job='analyst';

29.List all names, jobs, and a job classification number, which is to be assigned by you. Translate the value started in each job field to a job classification number. This is to be done as follows-
A.CLERK
B.MANAGER
C.PRESIDENT
D.OTHER
      




30.Display the length of the longest employees name 

select max(length(ename)) from emp;

31.Write a query to list the length of service of the employees (of the form n years and m months).

select hiredate, concat(timestampdiff(year, hiredate, curdate()), ' year and ', timestampdiff(month, hiredate, curdate()), ' months') `length of service ` from emp;

32.How many employees who are joined in 1985.

select count(*) from emp where year(hiredate)=1985;

33.How many employees joined each month in 1985.
34.How many employees who are joined in March 1985.

select count(*) from emp where year(hiredate)=1985 and month(hiredate)='match';

35.Find the total sales amount

select sum(amount) from sales;

36.Find the customer-wise lowest and highest sales amount

select custname, min(amount), max(amount) from sales group by custname;

37.Find product-wise lowest, highest and total sales.

select prodname, min(amount), max(amount), sum(amount) from sales group by prodname;

38.Find department-wise average salary for all the departments employing more than three employees

select deptno, avg(sal) from emp group by deptno having count(*) > 3;

39.Find the customer-wise total sales for all the customers except ‘TKB SPORT SHOP’ who came to purchase various sports items maximum four times.
40.Display the highest, lowest, sum and average salary for all employees. Label the columns appropriately.

select max(sal), min(sal), sum(sal), avg(sal) from emp;



41.Modify the above query and display the output for each job type.

select job, max(sal), min(sal), sum(sal), avg(sal) from emp group by job;

42.List names of people who have salary less than the average salary for dept 20
43.Find the average annual salary per job in each department. 
44.Count the number of people in department 30 who receive a salary and the number of people who receive a commission

select count(case when deptno=30 then 1 end) sal_count, count(case when (deptno=30 and not isnull(comm)) then 1 end) comm_count from emp;

45.Compute the average, minimum and maximum salaries of these groups of employees having job as Clerk or manager, Display the job as well

select job, avg(sal), min(sal), max(sal) from emp group by job having (job='clerk' or job='manager');

46.Write an SQL command that displays 2nd highest salary paid.
47.Write a query to find the employees who are earning the maximum salary in their departments.

select deptno, max(sal) from emp group by deptno;

48.Write a query to find the salesman number (repid) who has achieved the maximum total sales among the entire salesman.



49.List the highest salary paid for each job.
50.Find the most recently hired employee in each department.
51.In which year did most people join the company? Display the year and the number of employees.
52.Write a query to display employee name whose name occurs only once in the table.
53.Write a query to display all the details from dept table along with the no. of employee working in each dept.
54.Find out which department does not have any employees.
55.List out the no. of employees joined in every month in ascending order.